# edx-generator

A python script for generating an edx course from markdown. 

The script generates a compressed .tar.gz file that can be directly imported into the edx course. When this file is imported, it will automatically populate all course contents. 

Warning: any existing course contents in edx will be deleted.

The aim is:
- to allow all content to be created using a simple text editor outside the browser.
- to allow Git and version control to be used when developing the content.
- to allow better control over formatting and styles. 

## Hierarchical Terminology

In  the edx interface, the hierarchy is as follows:
-  course > section > subsection > unit > component

In the tar file folder structure, the hierarchy is as follows
-  course > chapter > sequence   > vertical > component

In this document, we will use the first, i.e. course > section > subsection > unit > component. This mateches what users see in the user interface. However, the python script will of course generate a .tar.gz file that uses the second. 

## Structure of Folders and .md files

In order to create the edx course, the instructors need to create a set of markdown files (.md files), and save them in a specific folder structure that is four levels deep.

The folder strcture is as follows:

- Course_Folder (_1st level_)
  - course_settings.md
  - Section_Folder (_2nd level_)
    - section_settings.md
    - Subsection_Folder (_3rd level_)
      - subsection_settings.md
      - Unit_Folder (_4th level_)
        - unit_settings.md
        - component_file.md

## Example

Here is an example of what a folder structure might look like. It should match the structure that the users see in the edx user interface.

- My_MOOC (_course, 1st level_)
  - course_settings.md
  - Week_1 (_section, 2nd level_)
    - section_settings.md
    - 01_Intro (_subsection, 3rd level_)
      - subsection_settings.md
      - Intro_Text(_unit, 3rd level_)
        - unit_settings.md
        - comp1.md
        - image1.jpg
      - Intro_Video (_unit, 3rd level_)
        - unit_settings.md
        - comp1.md
    - 02_Shorts (_subsection, 3rd level_)
      - subsection_settings.md
      - Concept_1 (_unit, 3rd level_)
        - unit_settings.md
        - comp1.md
        - comp2.md
        - image1.jpg
      - Concept_2 (_unit, 3rd level_)
        - unitsettings.md
        - comp1.md
      - Concept_3 (_unit, 3rd level_)
        - unit_settings.md
        - comp1.md
        - image1.jpg
    - 03_Assignment (_subsection, 3rd level_)
      - subsection_settings.md
      - Quiz (_unit, 3rd level_)
        - unit_settings.md
        - comp1.md
        - comp2.md
        - comp3.md
        - image1.jpg
  - Week_2 (_section, 2nd level_)
    - section_settings.md
    - etc, etc, etc
    
Note that the alphanumeric ordering of the folders is important, as this will reflect the ordering that will be generated in edx. In this example, the sections'Week_1', 'Week_2', etc will be sorted correctly. However, the subsections 'Intro', 'Shorts', and 'Assignment' would not be sorted correctly. So, for that reason, they have been named '01_Intro', '02_Shorts', and '03_Assignment'.
    
# Files

There are three types of files:

- Settings files
  - Must be end in "settings.md", for example "section_settings.md", note the name is all lowercase
  - Contains the settings for the parent folder.
- Component files, the actual contents
  - Can have any name.
  - Extension must be either .md or .html
  - If it is .md, an html file will be generated by processing the markdown (see section below on Markdown).
  - If it is .html, then the file will be used as is, without conversion.
    - The html will be assumed to include the correct html snippets.
    - This is a fallback, just in case there is something that cannot be achieved by using markdown.
- Assets, such as images
  - Can have any name.
  - The assets should be in the same folder where they are used, i.e. with the components.
  - Images can be .png and .jpg
    
## Settings file, settings.md

The settings file contains the settings for each folder. 

Setting are define as a set of key-value pairs. All settings are optional. If a particular setting is not found, then a default value will be used. 

### Common Metadata For Settings Files in Folders

Common setting for all settings files are as follows:
- display_name: string (if missing, the folder name will be used)
- visible_to_staff_only: "true"
- start: "&quot;2019-08-18T10:00:00+00:00&quot;"

The display_name is the name that will be displayed to the user in the edx interface.

### Root Folder Metadata

Additional course metadata is as follows:

Required
- url_name: "1234" 
- org: "abc" 
- course: "online101"

### Course Folder Metadata

Additional course metadata is as follows:

Required
- wiki_slug: "xxx"

Optional
- cert_html_view_enabled: "true"
- course_image: "course_image.jpg"
- graceperiod: "900 seconds"
- instructor_info: "[Luke Skywalker, Han Solo]"
- invitation_only: "true"
- language: "en"
- learning_info: "[]"
- minimum_grade_credit: "0.8"


### Section Folder Metadata

Additional section metadata is as follows:

NIL

### Subsection Folder Metadata

Additional subsection metadata is as follows:

Optional
- format: "Assignment" 
- graded: "true"
- due: "2019-08-25T10:00:00+00:00" 
- hide_after_due: "true" 

### Unit Folder Metadata

NIL

## Component file, component.md

The component file defines one component.

At the top of the component file are a set of key-value pairs. These define settings for this component.

The 'type' defines the component type.
- type: text
- type: video
- type: problem-submit
- type: problem-checkboxes
- type: problem-choice
- type: problem-dropdown
- type: problem-numerical
- type: problem-text

For the problems, there are five different types (with/without hints/feedback):
- Submit a file.
- Multiple Choice with Hints and Feedback
- Checkboxes with Hints and Feedback
- Dropdown with Hints and Feedback
- Numerical Input with Hints and Feedback
- Text Input with Hints and Feedback

At the moment, only 'problem-submit' and 'problem-checkboxes' are implemented.

### Common Metadata For Component Files

Common setting for all settings files are as follows:

Optional
- display_name: string
- visible_to_staff_only: "true"
- start: "&quot;2019-08-18T10:00:00+00:00&quot;"

The display_name is not displayed to the user in the edx interface.

### Text Metadata

Additional text metadata is as follows:

NIL

### Video Metadata

Additional video metadata is as follows:

Required
- youtube_id_1_0: "3_yD_cEKoCk"

Optional
- download_video: "false" 
- edx_video_id: "" 
- html5_sources: "[]" 


### Problem Metadata - Submit

Additional submit problem metadata is as follows:

Required
- question: "question_name"
- queuename: "name_of_queue_on_edx_server"

Optional
- max_attempts: "2" 
- weight: "1.0"
- showanswer: "finished" 

For the content of the submit problem, the markdown should be defined as follows: ... to be completed

### Problem Metadata - Checkboxes

Additional checkboxes  problem metadata is as follows:
- max_attempts: "2" 
- weight: "1.0"
- showanswer: "finished" 
- group_access: "{}"
- rerandomize: "always" or "never"
- attempts_before_showanswer_button: "1"

For the content of the checkboxes problem, the markdown should be defined as follows: ... to be completed

## Markdown

Markdown is processes using the python markdown module.
- https://python-markdown.github.io
- pip install markdown

The following extensions are used:
- https://python-markdown.github.io/extensions/extra/
  - https://python-markdown.github.io/extensions/fenced_code_blocks/
  - https://python-markdown.github.io/extensions/tables/
- https://python-markdown.github.io/extensions/meta_data/

extensions = ['extra', 'meta', 'sane_lists']

### Code Blocks

Using the extension defined above, you can display code as follows:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{.python hl_lines="3"}
# Here is how to draw a line
pos1 = make.Position([1,2,3])
pos2 = make.Position([1,2,3])
line = make.Polyline([pos1, pos2])
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

### Tables

Using the extension defined above, you can generate tables as follows:

First Header  | Second Header
------------- | -------------
Content Cell  | Content Cell
Content Cell  | Content Cell

### Metadata

The metadata is important for describing the components. 

Metadata is defined as key-value pairs at the top of the markdown file.

This is used for both settings files and for component files, as described above.

# Execution

Generate all the MOOC file and the .tar.gz file using the following command:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
python genedx.py ./in/MOOC1 ./out/MOOC1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You must supply two arguments to the python script:
- ./in/MOOC1 is the source folder where the script will read from
- ./out/MOOC1 is the destination folder where the script will write to

Warning: everything in the output folder will be deleted.

